#Blog

## Link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y2QWkZPygT0K4lKdeTA5daKGeS6PrVYln5aRE4dJE_Y/edit?usp=sharing

## 28/09/23
We have decided to create an Android application. Its main function would be to identify plants from the picture taken by the user and suggest a watering schedule for that specific plant. We have not decided on the name, user interface or how to achieve these functions yet. We are currently looking for a supervisor for our project. The repository to create the project was created and we have started working on the project proposal.

## 11/10/23
We have found a project supervisor - Mark Roantree. We had a meeting with him, and he has agreed to help us with our project. We have researched possible methods of plant identification through a picture and have decided to use PlantNet API to find the plant’s Latin name. We are going to use Android Studio as our IDE for this project. We are currently researching libraries that we could use in our project. While the name of the application has not been fully decided on yet, we have made a list of possible names, such as GardenBuddy, PlantNana and PotPal. The project proposal is almost finished and after receiving feedback from our supervisor we are going to make appropriate changes.

## 02/11/23
We have chosen a name for our application - PotPal. We have presented our project, and it was approved. After receiving feedback on our project proposal, we are exploring possible technical challenges and how we are going to create a suggested watering schedule, as well as what are the criteria of success for this schedule. It would be beneficial to discuss this with our project supervisor.

## 26/11/23
We are preparing the project’s functional specification document. This has allowed us to explore the more technical side of the project and plan how we are going to approach it. We have decided to focus on user experience when creating the profile for the plant whose water schedule the user wants to track. We have identified five core functionalities of the application: plant tracker, plant profile creation, personalised care schedule, watering reminders and health monitoring. We have also identified our target audience - novice gardeners. 

## 28/12/23
We have made progress regarding the project. We have created a test application, using Gradle as our dependency management tool. We have written methods to send pictures to the API and extract the plant’s Latin name from the JSON response. We are researching the possibility of using the cloud to host our database and pictures.

## 25/01/24
We met our supervisor. Our next goal is to connect the front end and the back end. Unfortunately, no option to host our database or pictures on the cloud was found, so we have decided to have the database included in the application.

## 19/02/24
We have connected the front end and the back end. Currently, our goal is to create a minimalistic user interface. We have created a database with plants and written methods to insert and fetch data from it. In the database, we have included the plant’s Latin name, type, sunlight and water needs as well as common names the plant is known by. Going forward, we are going to focus on user testing and getting the application ready for demonstration.


